Day 2 (Opening Level):

**Adventuring for Beginners (Jimmy and the Pulsating Mass)**

by Kasey Ozymy

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fUbAwwvgiko

******

I'm still not very far in this game (despite enjoying it a heck of a lot), but it's already shown me that it does a perfect job of balancing between heartwarming endearment and heart-rending dread. This song, being for the game's first true area, falls squarely in the former camp. The ascending piano scale in the intro has such a childlike simplicity to it, and that together with its rising motion plus the gentle synth pads in the back make you feel like a kid going to his first day of school (fittingly, there's lots of tutorial signs in this area). But the real star of the song is the saxophone. Like Cyber Sleuth's, it's heavily synthetic, but here it takes the opposite approach, removing the articulative nuances of a real sax to make things sound very soft and lush as it dances along notes in an almost dream-like haze. However, the soulful quality of the sax remains, making the main melody sound like it's urging you on, but ever so gently. The bassline, playing a rapdily-descending countermelody, rounds things out by making even the lower range of the song sound playful and lighthearted; the whole world, from top to bottom, is in a good mood.

All of this makes for the perfect embodiment of nostalgia: looking back at past days where everything seemed to move forward without any problems and only good feelings. I think this Youtube comment captures the spirit of it really well: "This song makes me want to hug my little nephews and kiss my mother and sister, tell my dad I love him."
