Day 4 (Console-Exclusive Games)

**Title Theme (Wii Sports)**

by Kazumi Totaka

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d5c4KOopwLs

******

It's the song that greeted most of us when we first booted up the Wii and launched ourselves into the waggle craze. I always remembered this song being inoffensive and kind of boring, but upon relistening to it on speakers that aren't attached to a shitty TV, I've found a lot more to appreciate. The opening flute and piano riff is extremely iconic, with a melody that's not only memorable, but also bright, inviting, and invigorating like you'd expect to hear at the start of a fitness program video. This themeing continues into the bulk of the song, as the main melody sounds exactly like the sort of thing you'd expect to hear in the background while a fitness trainer speaks to the camera with an overly-earnest smile.

Two things stand out, though. For one, the piano is played and mastered in such a way as to really emphasize the peak of each note, giving it this bouncy and resonant quality that makes it sound very close to your ear. This makes the main melody a lot more interesting to listen to and keeps it from fading into the background like actual fitness music. The other big player is the bass, playing this rolling and repetitive melody that provides the perfect balance between lightheartedness and persistent progress. These two things -- the piano and the bass -- construct the idea of a fitness trainer welcoming you to join without actually having one talk over the track.

Where the song gets interesting (and a section I had legitimately never heard until now) is in the latter half, where a bunch of soaring synths take over. Listening to it makes me picture a highlight reel of all the great achievements and records made by athletes who've gone to this sports club: a batter hitting a home run with loaded bases, an underdog boxer getting the final KO punch against a bigger opponent, stuff like that. And then the main melody comes back, while the synths continue playing underneath as countermelodies. This juxtaposition is really inspiring because it's saying *YOU*, too, can be one of these MVPs with enough practice -- so let's start waggling!
