_Day 5 (Hub / Overworld)_

**Shining Castle of Dying Wishes (Suikoden Tierkreis)**

by Norikazu Miura

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zObGEiKOqQg

******

For those who aren't familiar, Suikoden is a JRPG series whose main draw is recruiting a huge number of playable and distinct characters (if I recall correctly, it's usually around 108). Of course, all of these people fighting with you need a place to stay, so in each game, you take ownership of a castle that serves as your army's hub.

In Tierkreis, the castle is big enough for each tenant to personalize their living quarters. It's also situated in a patch of wild fringes, allowing everyone to go about their daily lives undisturbed. With up to 108 tenants, that means a _lot_ of everyday shenanigans going on at once. To match that, this song goes for a lively and bustling atmosphere, leading with a vivacious and boisterous Celtic melody that immediately demands your attention. The melody constantly undulates and oscillates without a care in the world, and while that's happening, the tambourine soldiers on with sparse but persistent percussive hits. It's like you're calmly walking through the castle while tenants laugh, argue, and play together all around you. Another neat thing is how more instruments are added to the melody each time it repeats (I'm quite fond of the whistle-y flute in the final iteration), representing how you recruit more tenants and deck out more of the castle over time.

Now, if this were all the song had to it, it would probably sound way too zany to enjoy and wear thin very quickly. That's where the last section comes in to round things out. After a short break, the lead woodwind plays a slower melody with more drawn-out notes that contrasts with the rest of the song. There's a very homely and satisfied vibe to the lower notes it plays, and I love that it because it sounds like the tenants are saying: "Yeah, things get crazy here, but this is _our_ home." It ends things on a very warm and sincere note.

(On a side note, this song also sounds like a blend of Clock Town from Majora's Mask and Guardia Castle from Chrono Trigger. Make of that what you will.)

