_Day 6 (Relaxing)_

**Sabbath (Saya no Uta)**

by Zizz Studio

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hj8icpQldzc

******

Playing through Saya no Uta was one of the most disturbing experiences I've had in gaming. This was due in part to it being short and tightly paced, allowing the oppressively unsettling atmosphere to engulf you near-constantly.

In the few moments where this isn't the case, you're usually treated to this song: Sabbath. The title, which is a reference to the Abrahamic day of rest, immediately tells you that this is supposed to be a relaxing song. But this reference also implies something deeper. Consider that the Sabbath is just _one_ day of rest out of a seven-day week. For many, this is barely enough time to fully relax -- like a gasp of air before diving back into the depths of a new week. For me, Sunday is usually a day of anticipation and dreading what's to come when the day is over.

This is very much the feeling Sabbath instills whenever it's used in-game, as you know something worse is about to happen as soon as this song stops playing. But it's not just the timing that yields this effect; the song itself is very carefully composed to balance between soothing repose and dreadful anticipation.

The soothing side is very apparent and doesn't warrant much commentary. The whole song is made up of soft, mellow synths played at a very relaxed, almost sleepy pace. It always makes me imagine walking through empty streets after everyone's already gone home from work and school. It's the feeling of sunset, of the day winding down.

It's when you focus on the individual parts of this soundscape that you start to hear elements of anxiety and dread. The very first thing we hear, a simple eight-note ostinato on an electric piano, is very noticeably filtered. While this adds to the soothingness by removing the harsher parts of the piano's timbre, it also conveys a feeling of restraint and caution.

Afterwards, a lighter piano comes in to play the lead melody. Its tone is bright and twinkly, but also noticeably dampened to make it sound subdued, thus adding to the earlier feeling of caution. The melody itself constantly rises and falls on each note, never leaving you feeling fully settled. There's also the sheer amount of space between each note -- the sheer amount of _emptiness_ -- which implicitly drums up the anxiety of feeling like _something_ is coming.

After a minute of this, the latter half of the song ramps things up, but in cleverly subtle ways so as not to break the calm atmosphere. The first addition is a marimba playing another ostinato, softly and playfully, but it's shorter and played at double the tempo of the other one. It's like your heart is beating faster -- not exactly racing, but faster than your calm surroundings would have you expect.

The last additions to the song are twinkly glockenspiel accents, played on every other note of the first ostinato. This might sound like it's brightening up the mood, but there's two things that keep it from being all sunshine and rainbows. For one, it's played on the _lower_ notes of the ostinato, and that makes it sound less rousing and more conclusive in a negative way, like bells ushering you into the afterlife. Second, the one-note gap introduces _just enough_ emptiness to make you focus on the 'darkness' between each bright note. And this ties into one of the central tenets of the game: the fact there's a dark, merciless truth lurking beneath every bright surface.
