_Day 7 (Indie Game)_

**Descent (Gris)**

by Berlinist

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c1UN0unVLQs

******

As a game I played last December, Gris was a great experience for rounding out my past decade of gaming. It forgoes any kind of dialogue or narrative, instead expressing everything solely through visuals, gameplay, and music. And while the former two are definitely effective, it's the game's delicate, minimalist soundtrack that spoke to me the most.

In that regard, my absolute favourite song from the OST is Descent. It's practically a novel compared to other game tracks, being 10 minutes long and entirely through-composed (no sections are repeated), and it features such elements as a descending piano line, a calm bassline, and a thick background texture made up of several long, subdued synth pads. Unsurprisingly, this song plays during the underwater segment of the game, so this all seems like pretty standard fare for an atmospheric water level... at least for the first four and a half minutes.

At that point, there's a significant shift in the song as a twangy synth comes in playing sparse notes without any melodic connection. The notes are loud and attention-grabbing, but also reverberating, like someone calling out to you from afar. In the context of the game, this part is strange, because Gris, our heroine, is completely alone for almost all of the game — especially during this underwater segment. So then what could be this "voice" calling out in the song? That question lingers as the song continues...

...And then it all starts to come together at the 6m40s mark, where cellos come in playing a few trembling chords. And not just any chords: they're the ones that form the foundation of many of the soundtrack's songs, the ones that form the very lifeblood of "Gris". Because of that, we find out all along that this song isn't just about diving into the environment around Gris — **it's about Gris diving into herself, overcoming the murky waters of self-doubt to reconnect with a part of herself that had been separated, buried, and drowned, the one now calling out as another voice.**

To develop this idea, the song begins building toward its climax, with more and more strings being piled onto those few trembling and desperate chords. All the while, that twangy synth continues calling out in the distance as something the strings keep trying to reach. This combination makes for such a heartfelt and emotional depiction of the desire to reunite oneself, coming to terms with the parts one has neglected but now realizes are essential to their being. To express the sheer personal gravitas of such an experience, all of the instruments here slowly rise in pitch on each repetition, to the point where it sounds like someone choked up and about to cry.

But not all who wander within themselves are lost. The final addition to the song, at the 7m37s mark, is a clear, crystalline synth that sounds like a mix between bells and a piano. In a song made up of so many subdued and dampened elements, the bright and clean timbre of this synth allows it to take over the soundscape and instill the climax of Gris' descent with one overwhelming emotion:

_Acceptance._

At first, it seems like this glimmer of hope is only temporary, as the bells soon get pushed to the background and then left out entirely. I find this to be a pretty realistic depiction of what it's like to grasp self-acceptance: you're there, *you're right there*, but then that feeling ends up slipping through your fingers because of some lingering self-doubt. The critical part then, is what you do after, because you can choose to let it go, or you can continue diving through the depths to find it again and hold onto it for good.

And, at 8m20s, Gris gives us her decision, because ***the bells come back***. Everything else falls away as this happens, instilling a sense of singularity as all the disparate parts of Gris come together to form a single, whole, and complete person once more, one who is clear and shimmering with hope just like the bells that celebrate this moment.

Needless to say, this song is one of the most evocative and personal emotional experiences I've ever encountered in game music. And I think it speaks well to the promises of Indie Games in delivering something more unique and closer to the heart than what you get from most larger game studios.
