_Day 8 (Shooter Game)_

**Samus' Gunship Interior - Celestial Archives (Metroid Prime Hunters)**

by Lawrence Schwedler and James Phillipsen

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yy-wh6UJSuk

******

Anyone remember the thumb stylus on the wrist strap that came with the older DS models? I do, because I used it extensively in the game that has one of my favourite shooter control schemes: Metroid Prime Hunters. No joke; once I got used to it, I found using my thumb to be way more efficient than any dual-stick control scheme I'd used until then. I think Kid Icarus: Uprising later perfected this touch screen-based control scheme, but I still look back at Hunters fondly as the game that introduced the idea.

I don't remember much of the music from the game (as it's been like a decade and a half since I last touched it), but one song that did stick with me is the background music for the very first area because it was morbidly successful in giving 9-year-old me the heebie-jeebies. As you'd expect from a Metroid game, the song is highly atmospheric, forgoing a traditional melody in favour of texture and unique timbral choices.

The dominant element is the low, humming synth that sustains just a single chord for the duration of the song. Such aggressive consistency makes the whole song sound oppressive, and this is further enforced by how the synth fluctuates in volume at random but frequent intervals, giving it just enough variation to keep your ears from getting used to it. It's a pretty neat and minimalistic way of depicting anxiety, because you never really get used to the feeling of being on edge, either.

With that low hum as the baseline, the rest of the song consists of synths and other effects that come and go, like the things in Samus' field of vision as she trudges through the ship. One element that always stuck with me is the repetitive 'beeping' effect at the start of the song, crashing through the soundscape while slowly fading away. I always found that subtly horrifying, because it sounds like a computer somewhere is warning you about danger within the ship, but the computer is too far for you to see what it's saying. Another similar but even more unsettling sound effect shows up at 0:55, sounding even more urgent ― but _still_ too far away.

All of this said, it's not like this is the first time Samus has dealt with an unforgiving environment on her own. She's a pro, and this is shown in the other dominant element: a light synth pad that almost resembles a choir. It plays a few descending chords that give the song a sense of stability and introspection. Listening to it, you can picture Samus calmly focusing on her mission and getting to the bottom of the mystery she has to solve, even as she marches straight into the unknown.
