_Day 9 (Licensed Game)_

**Black Knight Boss Battle (Scooby-Doo! Night of 100 Frights)**

by Todd Dennis, Tommy Tallarico, Howard Ulyate _(I unfortunately couldn't find any info on the soundtrack aside from the primary composers on Wikipedia, so I'm not sure who the vocalists in this song are)_

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VBkrM5smtsE

******

Night of 100 Frights is right up there with Battle for Bikini Bottom in "Licensed Games for Children's Cartoons That Are Actually Surprisingly Great". The mechanics are maybe not as deep as you'd want for a 3D platformer, but the game more than makes up for this by being full to the brim with legitimate heart for the Scooby-Doo franchise.

A large part of that comes from the soundtrack, which sounds so authentic it could easily be slotted into an old episode of the show. Out of the whole OST, the one track that sticks with me the most is the theme for the very first boss fight against the Black Knight. Before the battle, you're treated to an awesome cutscene introducing the scenery-chewing Black Knight, and then it immediately cuts to this song's chilltastic opening. The combination of a spooky theremin (a contactless instrument used to produce that alien synth in the opening) and a grooving bassline perfectly captures the spirit of Scooby-Doo and how it embodies "chilling" in both senses of the word. Then about 25 seconds in, the barbershop quartet kicks in and you just can't help but smile at how cheesy and retro it sounds. My favourite bit of the song is the fast-paced doo-wop beginning at 0:56, which is a fun way to add urgency to the song without breaking the atmosphere.
