_Day 10 (RPG Battle Music)_

**Sophisticated Fight (The Legend of Heroes: Trails in the Sky)**

by Falcom Sound Team jdk

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5nBJzD4dFGY

******

**TiTS** (Trails in the Sky) is a hearty game that juggles between dialogue-heavy story sequences and wandering between huge tracts of land littered with enemy encounters. The battle system is a slow and careful one, requiring you to carefully ogle the battlefield for the best positioning of characters and skills. But just because battles take an ample amount of time doesn't mean you can't get jiggy widdit, so the battle theme serves to constantly flash the fun in all of this right in your face. The overarching jazz theme gives off the kind of calm, introspective vibe you might feel while sitting alone in a cafe, sipping coffee with a large helping of milk. The main melody played by brass and two piano lines bounces all over the place to show how fun it is to consider all the different options and possibilities available to you. Meanwhile, the drumkit knocks around at a steady pace to remind you to keep your eyes up there and on the prize. Late in the song, the main melody falls away while the piano and flute swiggle around a rapid ostinato to drum up anticipation: will your party go bust, or will you win and be rewarded with a nice chest?

Although the title and light jazz might make you picture some elderly gentlemen constantly groping around for their walking sticks, in context, it fits very well with how every battle is an optimistic learning opportunity for the game's two budding adventurers.
