_Day 11 (Puzzle Game)_

**4 Minutes Before Death ~ VARIATION (Ghost Trick: Phantom Detective)**

by Masakazu Sugimori

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wne7_Lld-Zw

******

Ghost Trick is one of my favourite games of all time. It was created by Shu Takumi, the mastermind behind Ace Attorney, and although the gameplay is vastly different, it still features his trademark style of weaving gameplay and story closely together. This time, instead of evidence and testimony being the jigsaw pieces you have to fit together, the world itself is the puzzle you have to solve. You're a ghost who can possess inanimate objects, and you use your powers to go back into the past and prevent people from dying. The catch — as you might have guessed from the song title — is that you get exactly 4 minutes to save each person's life.

As you may have _also_ guessed from the song title, this particular version is a variation played in later parts of the game. If you're familiar with Ace Attorney's music, it's basically the Allegro theme. (Fun fact: the composer also worked on the first Ace Attorney game.) But where most of the Ace Attorney series' Allegro themes made careful changes and additions to make things sound more complex or mysterious, this song focuses on communicating one simple, almost primal message:

***HURRY***

The main contributing element is the bassline, which is not only fast as hell, but volume boosted to the point of practically clipping. Normally, that's a no-no for any kind of sound production, but here it works well for two reasons. First, it perfectly mimicks the sensation of your heartbeat about to burst of your ears. Second, it almost completely overpowers the synth ostinato from the regular version, making it feel like your ability to reason and think clearly is clouded over by overwhelming anxiety. The last element of the song — the strings — not only provide a great contrast to the fast tempo, but also pile on the anxiety by playing suspended chords.

It's a rather simple song, but that doesn't take anything away from how effective it is. To this day, one of the most terrifying and heart-pounding experiences I've ever had in gaming was the first time this song played in-game, and I can tell you, no other song so perfectly fit the simultaneous emotions of "HOLY SHIT" and "GOTTA GO FAST". Masakazu Sugimori has a knack for nailing the essence of a scene with so little.
