_Day 12 (Depressing)_

**The Way Home (Terranigma)**

by Masanori Hikichi & Miyoko Kobayashi

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F4HwR1jKjEs

******

> ***????? fell into a deep sleep...***
>
> ***And ????? dreamt his last dream...***
>
> ***It was a dream of becoming a bird***
>
> ***And seeing the world grow older.***

~ _Narration just before the scene in which this song plays_

One day, I looked at the recent uploads from a Youtuber I follow who does VGM remasters. His newest one was from Terranigma, a game I had _never_ heard of in my life. Despite the lack of context, I found myself completely spellbound when that narration was shown at the start of the video, followed by a gorgeous illustration of the bird's journey that the video slowly pans over while the music plays. I still have yet to play the game, but this song has never left my mind because it captures an unsettling but also depressing experience:

***Solipsism***.

It's the overwhelming feeling that nothing is real except yourself. Maybe it's all just a simulation. Or maybe you're God, living blissfully unaware in this reality you've constructed — until the day you remember everything. I've suffered through episodes of the latter when I was younger, and although it was scary at first, it was always followed by a much stronger feeling of grief and isolation. No one understands the truth but yourself, and you can only watch while this fake world moves on without you. Being God means being an outsider to all existence and all meaning — and nothing is lonelier than that.

Listening to _The Way Home_ brings me back to all of these feelings. The flute lead is light, airy, and impossibly clear as it plays a melody that sharply rises and falls, never settling. It makes me think of my soul, floating aimlessly in its own space above everything else. To add to that, there's a rapid piano ostinato running beneath the flute, sounding infinitely separated in both tone and tempo. It's like you're cut off from time itself as it — and everything else in this "world" that adheres to time — marches on. The latter gets expanded on 3 minutes into the song, where choirs come in to represent people and then entire civilizations. But when this happens, the flute gets replaced by a desperate, high-pitched string ensemble that cries out at the top of the soundscape where nothing else can reach it. Even with all these others around, it's still entirely alone.

The cherry on top is that even with all that, the song never sounds overtly sad. Parts of the main melody even sound upbeat, and the whole song has this sense of resignation it. This is strikingly accurate to my own experiences as well, for two reasons. One is that it captures the crushing feeling of futility, to the point where you can't feel sad anymore because you know there's no point (and even "sadness" starts to feel unreal). But the other thing is that resignation can also lead to the path of recovery, which is accepting that solipsism _might_ be true, but choosing to live your life to the fullest anyway, because whether or not this reality is 'real' doesn't change the life you're experiencing right now. There's a hugely satisfying sense of reunification when this happens, of returning to the status quo, and that's reflected in how the song calmly ends with the single flute and piano that we began with. The flute even repeats itself a few times at the very end, finally finding a place settle. _Your soul found the way home._

******

If you don't mind spoilers for a 25-year-old SNES ARPG, I highly recommend watching the video of the remastered version, as listening to the song alongside the illustration is an incredibly moving experience.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bVI833kGJqw

