_Day 14 (Vocal)_

**Everything's Alright (To the Moon)**

by Laura Shigihara & Kan R. Gao

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nP-AAlZlCkM

******

*To the Moon* is one of those sentimental story-driven games that people play because a friend said it made them cry a lot. (As was the case for me.) The big emotional climax didn't grip me as much as I'd wanted (partly because I'd seen the central conceit pulled off much better in one of my favourite films, *Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind*), but I can still say that that moment was presented very well, thanks in large part to the vocal theme that goes with it.

Our vocalist is **Laura Shigihara**, a Japanese-American singer-composer. She's quite popular in the VGM community for contributing to games here and there as well as performing her own rearrangements on her Youtube and Twitch channels, supershigi. Her songs on *To the Moon* were the breakout work that put her on people's radars, although just a few years ago she struck it big again by landing an arranger and vocalist role in the official Chrono Trigger & Cross arrangement album. (Her old vocal arrangement of *Corridors of Time* even got a touch-up from Mitsuda himself.)

To me, Laura's always been a memorable vocalist because of her distinct singing voice. It's one that lies on the precipice of several boundaries, creating an ethereal 'in-between' effect that sounds gently otherworldly. From her mixed background, there's the clear and straightforward American accent contrasted against the light, waifish tone and overly-syllabic enunciation you'd typically hear in Japanese vocals. She sounds both foreign and familiar, like a voice you vaguely remember from your dreams. Then there's her softness and high-pitched range contrasted against her control and precise intonation, as well as how she can smoothly transition from a near-whisper to a strong (but still very gentle and controlled) bellow. She's both innocent and mature, both child-like and adult, and this works extremely well with the sentimental songs she tends to do, where the singer's mind is caught between present and past.

All of these qualities are used to great effect in *Everything's Alright*, alongside some additional details to bring home the resigned heartbreak at the core of the song. The most prominent one is her rubato, as she sings some syllables very quickly and then draws out other ones (or vice-versa) to keep in time with the phrase while sort of dancing around the tempo. Rubato is typically used to inject some liveliness and freedom into the vocals, but here it's used to express the singer's anxiety and indecisiveness about how she really feels. My favourite example of this is the title drop at 0:19, where each syllable in "Everything is" gets drawn out so that "alright" has to be sung in a quick and awkward-sounding manner, like Laura can't even bring herself to say it. It's a heartbreaking way to set up the dissonance in this song, between the reassuring lyrics and how the singer is anything but reassured.

Another key component is Laura's sparse but careful use of melismas (singing multiple notes of differing pitch on the same syllable). They're a great way of injecting multiple layers of meaning on a single syllable of the lyrics, and here Laura uses it to highlight the parts of the singer's recounting that bring her the most pain. One striking example is how her voice jumps in pitch in the middle of "there" at 0:41, implying the singer's hurt and disbelief over having just stood and done nothing while someone close to them was clearly in distress. A similar jump occurs in the latter syllable of "between" at 1:51 which, combined with how that syllable gets drawn out, expresses the singer's desperation in wanting to close the "rift" between her and her loved one.

The beauty lies in how these emotive moments are used sparingly throughout the song, making them sound like cracks in the soft, comforting fabric that the singer is trying to weave over their damaged heart. To add to that, the song uses repetition as a way to reconcile past moments of self-doubt. For example, the "there" syllable that I pointed out before gets repeated at 2:06, but this time there's no melisma and the whole line is sung straightforwardly, implying defeated acceptance of the singer's shortcomings.

In a similar vein, the cherry on top of everything is the final title drop at 2:55, lacking any of the adornments from the rest of the song. The tempo is even throughout, and there aren't any jumps that break the melodic flow, so this line ends the song on a deeply satisfying sense of peace. The very last bit of the line emphasizes this even further and bookends the whole song, by having the quick and awkward "alright" from the very beginning contrasted against this final line's very slow, deliberate, and controlled "alright". The singer can finally say with full honesty that, "Everything's alright" — it's just that her idea of "everything" now has one less person and one less relationship than before.
