_Day 15 (Boss Battle)_

**Escape the Ape That's in You! (Ape Escape 2)**

by Veronica Taylor & Koji Hayama

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzrZJ60DsmY

******

Big nostalgia moods today as *Ape Escape 2* was one of the first games I ever played. Each boss fight pits you against one of the big bad's top five goons, named the Freaky Monkey Five. All five of them share the same boss battle theme, but for the third one, Pink Monkey, things start off... pretty weird. Instead of getting right into the fight, you're dropped into a concert where she sings the most deliberately trite pop idol music you'll ever hear. You can freely hang out at the back of the audience area and just 'enjoy' her performance. (The bottom-right corner of the screen even has the video linked above playing all throughout the battle). The goal is to run up to front-stage and whack her silly ⁠— but then she gets Super Saiyan pissed and switches over to her much scarier second form. But alas, this unique song also gets replaced with the much less interesting Freaky Monkey Five battle theme. It's one of the rare (if not only) instance I've encountered where the battle music actually becomes *less* interesting during a boss's second form.

As for the music itself, imagine the most upbeat and inoffensive Japanese idol music you've ever heard, mixed with a smidge of that chill retro City Pop flair, and then smooth it all out until everything's as artificially clear and featureless as a line of vaseline. That's the backing in a nutshell: unobtrusive, repetitive, and clearly meant to be second fiddle supporting the real star of the show, Pink Monkey's vocals. And yet, even those are an acquired taste as Veronica Taylor deliberately sings flat and off-key to keep in-character.

Despite that, I still find the song very endearing to listen to. A small (okay, large) part of it is nostalgia, but the vocals manage to land on this fine line where they're *just* off enough to sound like bad singing, but are still easy on the ears. Credit for that goes to Veronica Taylor (Ash Ketchum's VA, for those who don't know), who opted to use a soft and breathy voice that sounds cutesy and love-dovey without overdoing it. Additionally, the high pitch and breathiness, coupled with how she starts adding some "oooh"s and "aaahhh"s in the latter half, sounds to me like the weird lovechild of Hanayo and Kotori, so there's that, too.

Oh, and one of the verses randomly starts with "feta cheese". Such complex songwriting means she has to have a direct relation to Kotori.
