_Day 17 (Never Get Tired of)_

**SUNSHINE COASTLINE (Ys VIII -Lacrimosa of DANA-)**

by Takahiro Unisuga (Falcom Sound Team jdk)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HvBla5NUlvk

******

This is one of the two songs on my workout playlist. (The other being the CPS-2 version of *Guile's Theme*, but everyone and their grandma knows that tune so I ruled it out.) As a result, it's one of my most listened to songs *ever*, but I still have yet to get even remotely tired with it, and that's probably because it does such a great job at instilling the opposite feeling: **tirelessness**.

In the intro, there are quick runs over a bright piano that are like the aural equivalent of sunlight cascading down over you. It makes me think of looking out a window on a summer morning to see the whole day ahead of you, which is an experience that's both invigorating and exciting. To put all that positive energy to use, the song quite literally kicks into full J-Rock / anime opening instrumental style with catchy guitar+synth melodies and ever-present drums.

The lead melody is fun and energetic, but also somewhat chilled and laidback, which is emphasized by the guitars' bright but soft tone; they make me think of the voices of close friends shouting and laughing and egging you on while spraying water guns or racing each other on the beach. Meanwhile, the bass drum marches on like a soldier beneath it all, sounding ridiculously crisp and punchy to blast through all the layers of guitars and synths and make it a persistent presence in your mind.

The combination of the bright, laidback leads and the steady, unyielding bass drum — together with how the melody steadily rises over the course of the song — is the pure embodiment of having the drive to accomplish anything while also feeling like everything is within your wheelhouse of capability. How can you get tired of a song that makes exhaustion an impossibility?
