_Day 18 (Birth Year)_

**Toad's Turnpike (Mario Kart 64)**

by Kenta Nagata

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r1VFMRCY5aE

******

'97 was a very strong year for gaming, with such notable releases as *Fallout*, *GoldenEye*, *Star Fox 64*, *Symphony of the Night*, and *Final Fantasy VII*. In fact, I was very tempted to pick something from *FF7* given that it has some of my favourite JRPG battle tunes. Despite that, however, I decided to go with a game that I have much more history with: *Mario Kart 64*. It was the very first game I ever played, so it's eerily fitting that it was released in my birth year (and very close to my exact birthday to boot).

The choirs in this song, at the beginning and especially at 1:10, absolutely *terrified* me when I was a kid. Combine that with how the stage takes place at night and features cars that can seemingly *never leave the turnpike*, and you have a recipe for imparting early-onset existential dread in a poor 5/6-year-old.

Coming back to it now with a much more level head, I find a lot to appreciate about how it illustrates the different facets of how it feels to drive down a turnpike or highway. The rolling synth ostinato is a cool way to represent the constant but steady motion of your car and the cars around you, while lofty, rising string chords capture the weightlessness and freedom of knowing that you're moving at breakneck speeds. On the other hand, the choirs that scared me so much give the song a huge, looming sense of space, and I think that illustrates the seemingly infinite road ahead of you, along with the frustrating but daunting thought of: "Will I ever get to the end?" But when that anxiety seems like it's about to burst toward the end, a wickedly smooth bassline kicks in at 1:18 to balance it out with that late-night city chill.

It all makes me miss those times I was half-asleep at the back of my dad's car, intermittently gazing out the window to see a glittering neon cityscape pass us by. Speed never felt more comforting than that.
