_Day 19 (Cover Song)_

**Canned Heat (Elite Beat Agents)**

by Jason Paige (originally by Jamiroquai)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ic25BISZHc8

******

So there was this peculiar rhythm game on DS that had you tapping circles while crazy shit goes on in the other screen. It was called *Osu*. By some miracle, Nintendo of America decided to bring it over State-side, but since the songs were in Japanese, they decided to basically retool the game from the ground-up with covers of popular Western songs. One thing that didn't get lost in translation, though, was the sheer weirdness of the scenarios in each beatmap.

The scenario for *Canned Heat* is probably the most notorious example. It follows the spoiled son of a wealthy auto company CEO, who one day gives him ninja garments and tasks him with stealing back top-secret car model plans from a competitor. So during the beatmap, you help him sneak around a highly-guarded facility in a ninja suit ⁠— all while acid jazz is blaring at you. Yeah.

Somehow, the combination works out in the end. I think it's because the smooth, laidback energy of the song actually matches quite well with the control and untouchableness of a pro ninja/spy. "Dancing circles around your enemies", or something like that. The song is also just *insanely* infectious, and Jason Paige (the legend who sang the original Pok⁠émon theme) delivers the vocals with such zest and flair that you can't help but sing along.

Although I have some not-so-fond memories of struggling with this beatmap like crazy, it did lead me to get into Jamiroquai and acid jazz in general further down the line, so it's actually kind of a cornerstone song for me in a way.
