_Day 20 (Racing Game)_

**Array (Drome Racers)**

by John Hancock, Steven Gow, Stafford Bawler, and Mark Hyett

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GYCfaFh8tiA

******

I don't remember why I got this game. I'm not huge into LEGO nor racing, and it wasn't like this game had a glowing reception (quite the opposite, in fact). Still, I'm glad I did because it introduced me to an absolutely kickass techno-rock soundtrack.

The world of *Drome Racers* takes place in the near-future (now 5 years in the past for us), so the main aesthetic is a blending of rough, unkempt nature with sleek, mechanical futurism. The "Array" course exemplifies this best, with a network of tunnels, bridges, and satellites integrated into a beautiful, scenic valley oh so harmoniously.

The course's BGM initially leans very far into the futuristic side, with a thumping, relentless bass drum + hihat pattern that just screams classic Techno. As it builds, more elements are slowly, carefully introduced to "lift" the song out of its initally dark and mechanical origins, such as hand drums, a highly-fuzzed electric guitar, and — most notably — a rapid, rising Trance lead that sounds like it's building up to something huge. It's like life is springing out from every orifice of the song, building and building and wanting to absolutely burst, until almost everything suddenly drops out at 1:27. The infectious, dance-y drum machine gets a spotlight to go nuts, and then...

***HOLY HECK THAT SYNTH DROP***

To call this synth wave transcendental would be an understatement. It's a sawtooth, but it's been smoothed and softened to such a sheen that it sounds like something you could only hear in dreams. It's also got a ton of carefully-applied reverb, engulfing the entire soundscape in its sheer majesty. Although the synth is, by definition, purely synthetic, it nonetheless manages to feel distinctly human in how it elicits the hopes, dreams, and wonders of humanity — of the people who have crafted such a beautiful future with technology.

The icing on the cake is that the course is carefully-crafted so that the synth drop happens right as you're driving along a huge bridge with an impressive view of the surrounding mountains and forests. Whenever you get to that spot, you almost forget that you're burning rubber.
