_Day 22 (Town / Village)_

**Auresco, Royal Capital (Xenoblade Chronicles 2: Torna ~ The Golden Country)**

by Manami Kiyota

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_17COcJOAhw

******

In a series with no shortage of fantastic town themes, Auresco's is the one that edges it out as my favourite from *Xenoblade*. (Both the day and night variations have this honour, but I'm keeping it to the day variant here for simplicity.) As with all great town themes, Auresco's does an excellent job painting a picture of the town and its unique visual themeing. Auresco is a royal city modelled after feudal Japan, and that's immediately apparent in all of the baseline elements that make up the song. The melody is pentatonic and thus inherently oriental sounding, and that's further emphasized by hits on a wood block in the background. Careful bell accents accompany a steady marching rhythm, bringing to mind a royal procession, and the elegance of the lead violin and piano further add to this sense of regality.

With just these elements, the song already paints a vivid picture of the town itself. But to me, what really puts this song above all the rest is how deeply it embodies the core thoughts and feelings of the people who call Auresco home. To give some non-spoilery context, Auresco is a city facing imminent disaster all throughout the Torna DLC. Sounds similar to Clock Town from *Majora's Mask*, right? The difference is that instead of sitting in increasing denial of an inevitable doomsday, Auresco's people, with your help, prepare the best they can to survive and try to put on this air of marching on and living life to the fullest despite what may happen. If there's one word I would use to describe the population of Auresco, it's **resolute**.

This is the same word I would use to describe the overall tone of the song. The greatest contributor to this is the lead violin, which plays at a specific range and with a constant, wavering tremolo that makes it *almost* sound like an erhu, but not quite. An erhu's tone can often resemble a voice crying out (great example: https://youtu.be/4WzXIAzz1ZA?t=41) so by making the lead violin adopt erhu-like qualities but smoothing it out with the softer timbre of the violin, the song's lead melody achieves this unique emotion of sounding deeply emotional but also very controlled and accepting. It's like the voice of someone who isn't afraid to cry or pour their heart out in front of you — yes, they're overcome with emotion, but they're comfortable with that mental state and don't feel the need to repress it. It's pure emotional strength.

Apart from that, there's also the shape of the melody and the overarching song structure. The melody slowly rises and falls, and every so often there will be a dramatic leap — like a sudden emotional outburst — but then this is always gently followed by a longer section of descent. It sounds like someone addressing their worries and anxieties, and succeeding in accepting them. As for the structure, the song starts off with the lead violin carrying the crux of everything, but at 1:41 when it seems to have finished its mental deliberation, it's joined by a larger string ensemble that adds a hustle and bustle to the song. It's in this moment that the song "zooms out" and shows that everyone in the village was following this same emotional train, and now that they've all reached a state of acceptance, they stand together in continuing to live in the face of adversity.

All that said, the secret star of the show is the piano that closes off the song starting at 2:06. It follows the same melody as the lead violin from the start of the song, but its gentler, cleaner tone along with how the backing mostly drops off instills a sense of quiet, personal unity with the universe. This comes to a head at the very end of the loop at 2:26, where the melody suddenly plays a rising diatonic scale, in stark contrast to the undulating pentatonic scales throughout the rest of the song. This break in the song's foundation is a simple but powerful way of ending off the song with the townspeople's newfound sense of hope — of living to see another tomorrow.
