_Day 24 (Earworm)_

**Balrog's Theme (Street Fighter II)**

by Yoko Shimomura

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EGCNES2M1rc

******

Out of all the mainstay *Street Fighter* characters, I didn't expect Balrog, the hulking antagonistic boxer, to have one of my favourite leitmotifs from the franchise. I used to dislike this theme because it just didn't seem to fit Balrog at all, but over time I've come to appreciate how it conveys details about his character beyond just his aggression and villainy. The aggression is still there in the thumping, relentless beat that kicks off the whole song, but it also brings to mind the sensation of your blood pumping thunderously — which is probably what Balrog experiences every time he walks into the ring. That boxing ring imagery gets expanded on in the ensuing string passage, playing a melody that dramatically descends from on high with a distant tone that makes the song soundscape very spacious. This makes me envision countless spotlights at the top of a huge stadium, shining down on the ring just as Balrog enters with a roar of applause (represented by the rapid ostinato played on a bouncy synth).

This string section was also the part that rubbed me the wrong way at first, because it sounded too heroic for someone who is decidedly *not* a hero. But if you look at it from Balrog's perspective, it all makes sense: a crowded stadium, flashy entrance lights, countless fans screaming your name as you enter — who *wouldn't* see themselves as the hero? Balrog imagines himself like fireworks — a spectacle everyone cheers for — and later elements in the song dig deeper into this showman mindset. An obvious one is the frenzied hand claps that frequently show up to drive the beat and thus Balrog himself. There's also quick, chime-like synths that remind me of level-up sound effects from various games, and I think that's pretty indicative of how Balrog views his opponents: faceless mooks to mow down on his way to gain more experience, fame, and his beloved "fight money".

Of course, the real star of the song, and the reason I picked it for today, is the *incredibly* catchy melody beginning at 10 seconds. It's played on a lower brass synth that kind of resembles a danger siren, and that just fits Balrog so well because it sounds like "the beast has been unleashed". (The SFV version's intro takes this idea even further). As for the sheer catchiness, I think that's because the melody has a lot of movement, but it's within a narrow pitch range and has lots of repetition, making it something you inherently want to hum or sing along to like any immensely popular Pop song. (The SFIV version even added vocals for this reason.) In the context of the song, this melody rounds out the boxing ring imagery by sounding like an **anthem** for Balrog — the kind that's intoxicatingly addicing not just for the fans singing it at him, but for Balrog himself as it justifies a life focused squarely on fighting.
