_Day 25 (Pumping)_

**Dancing with the Source (Divinity: Original Sin II)**

by Borislav Slavov

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6pegOKyiA6g

******

I played through the first 3 chapters of *Divinity: Original Sin II* with some of my goons last year and I enjoyed it despite sucking so bad at it. The battle system, though deep and filled with options, tends to involve sooooo much waiting because you have to wait for everyone on the field to make their move. Despite that, I was never truly bored, and that's thanks in large part to the consistently exciting battle music. *Dancing with the Source* is probably my favourite of the lot, as it strikes this balance between intensity and careful thought that matches the battle system perfectly. All of the song's elements are meant to ramp up suspense and anxiety but in a very controlled manner, from a pumping bass-and-brass rhythm that kicks off the song, to slowly rising brass chords, to heavy drums that sound like they're approaching something big. For me, the standout player here is the kalimba casually chiming in all over the song. A frigging *kalimba* — thumb piano, an instrument that kinda sounds like an earth-y music box. This is decidedly not the kind of instrument you'd expect to hear in a high-octane battle track, but it rounds out the whole song surprisingly well by imbuing several attributes: fragile, concentrated thoughtfulness; bouncy playfulness; and a bit of brightness shining down on the otherwise dark and heavy soundscape to provide a beacon of hope. It complements and completes the "pumping" aspect of the song by showing how exciting elements can have their effect magnified when juxtaposed against the presence of something that isn't so pumping. Like the calm you get during runner's high.
