_Day 26 (Unplayed Game)_ 

**The Scent of the Sea (I Am Setsuna)** 

by Tomoko Miyoshi 

https://youtu.be/oTcj8kcFxLI

******

*I Am Setsuna* is, in many parts of the JRPG community, considered a textbook example of mediocrity. It set off with lofty ambitions, claiming to capture the spirit of *Chrono Trigger* through its battle system and self-purported old-school charm. I've never played it myself, as the overwhelming consensus is that the game falls flat into bland and forgettable territory in basically every category: story, characters, setting, gameplay... It's even a common joke that the developer, *Tokyo RPG Factory*, succeeded in living up to its "factory" moniker by producing a functional but soulless game.

However, I disagree with that sentiment on the one part of the game I *have* experienced: its soundtrack. People generally consider it to be another contributor to the game's blandness, as **the music is almost entirely comprised of solo piano pieces**. It's an oddity for JRPGs, which typically demand a huge amount of range to match the varied locations and scenes throughout each game. *I Am Setsuna* lacks this from a purely instrumental standpoint — but that doesn't mean it lacks range. Tomoko Miyoshi's piano compositions show that composers don't need to rely on a large suite of instruments for constructing another world; careful and deliberate use of melody, structure, tempo, and other musical fundamentals can work just as well in evoking a wide breadth of vivid imagery and powerful emotions.

This approach is beautifully demonstrated in the song from the OST that touched my heart the most: *The Scent of the Sea*. It starts off with a simple two-note ostinato played on left hand in triple time. The combination of these two things — the constant "one-two one-two" rhythm set to a lighthearted, waltzy tempo — so minimally but precisely captures the feeling of going for a walk without a care in the world. No feelings of danger, or the fear of getting lost; just pure comfort and familiarity as you move through a place that feels like home. Already, the song paints the feeling of what it's like to walk through the most of idyllic of little towns.

This *is* a town, though, so we're not alone on our little stroll, as we're soon joined up by the right hand as it plays a bright but gentle melody. The melody is structured to sound just like the voice of an old acquiantance who happens to run into you, and then decides to tag along so you two can catch up. It's honestly so vivid: the first phrase at 0:07 is a set of three higher-register notes that sound a bit distant, like a friend calling out to get your attention from afar; then the second phrase at 0:10 repeats the same two notes but changes the third to a louder, even higher-pitched consonance that sounds so satisfied and elated, like how your friend is probably feeling once you two finally close the distance and join in the same walk together. From there, the melody moves somewhat unpredictably, but this is eased by how there are gaps of silence between each phrase, as if to give you time to take in what the right hand just said and give a response. It's such a great way to represent the voice of someone you're in light conversation with, learning new things about them at a relaxed pace. All the while, the left hand's ostinato keeps going — one-two, one-two — as the two of you walk on and on. But to where?

Then 0:29 crashes in like a wave.

And that's when you two arrive at the destination you had planned all along: the shoreline, where you watch the ocean waves come and go. My heart always aches on that transition, because the loud, multi-fingered accent from the left hand is so powerful but also so elegant and breathtaking, and I think that captures what it's like to get your first view of the ocean in person. The rest of this section is made up of more heavy accents from the left hand, which get resolved by light, calming follow-ups from the right hand. Listening to it, you can just picture the ebb and flow of the tide, with big waves crashing back down into the uniform serenity of the ocean's surface.

But much like your friend, the ocean is also something that's constantly changing, and this is shown at 0:51 where the left hand drops out, leaving only the right hand's gentle phrasing — which now sounds like a mix between the conversational tone from the start and the calming resolution that helped the waves settle down. It's as if the waves die down and the ocean settles just as the two of you sit down on a pier, talking about something more intimate and personal while gazing across the water that has seen and heard so much. Fears, worries, and anxieties about opening up to someone else are quite literally washed away, as the cool water laps at your feet...

Honestly, I could write a whole story around this song and others from this soundtrack, despite not having played the game at all. To end off, I want to present *Town by the Sea*, the song's arranged version from the official arrange album, *Winter's End*. I love this rendition even more because it adds extra sections that further the tale in my head, particularly the part beginning at 1:47 with a twinkly right hand ostinato that brings to mind the shimmering reflection of sunlight on the ocean's surface — contrasted by the left hand taking over the melody with an even more intimate tone than at the end of the original.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=29PohRfAOV4
