_Day 27 (Handheld)_

**A Tale of the Old Country (Heroes of Mana)**

by Yoko Shimomura

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s0wLO-7WjmM

Also including a Spotify link because the Youtube upload is kinda ass:

https://open.spotify.com/track/0kJW4ERX2NxIeSaTdQKRwy?si=2Tdh4A_wT2G1Aq-I_sGb2g

******

*Heroes of Mana* came out during the *Mana* series' mid-life crisis (before its current string of pretty great remakes), where each game was a complete shift in genre. *Heroes* was probably the weirdest one, being a real-time strategy game — *on the DS*. Although the touch screen made it easy to select tons of units at once, navigating over huge maps quickly wasn't something you could really do on the DS' tiny screen and limited inputs. I still had fun with it when I was little, but I can see why fans and non-fans alike mostly skipped over this entry.

Although the game seemed doomed to fall into obscurity on a conceptual level, that didn't stop the *Mana* team from going all-in on making a proper full-blown series entry. The story was pretty epic and involved (from what I remember), there were lots of cool (240p) anime cutscenes, and — most notably — the accompanying Yoko Shimomura soundtrack is so grand and sweeping that it's almost as if she forgot she was composing for a tiny handheld system. This ended up being both a good and a bad thing. Bad, because the DS' tinny soundcard couldn't really reproduce the huge orchestra that Shimomura loves to use. But good, because that doesn't stop the music from being downright awesome in spite of the limitations.

There are tons of great examples throughout the soundtrack, like the fan-favourite *And Thus, Fate Becomes Cruel*, which even got an official rearrangement on Shimomura's *Drammatica* album. But I decided to go with the song that stood out to me the most when I was playing and that has stuck with me all these years: *A Tale of the Old Country*. It's one of the many map songs, and it tends to play when your army is liberating a kingdom under siege. Musically, there isn't much to say other than that this is pure, concentrated Shimomura orchestral goodness. Her elegant, controlled, and slow-to-build style is just the perfect fit for illustrating a stout, heroic army carrying out a long, arduous military coup.

My favourite part of the song might be how the long, sustained brass notes that start things off later get repeated by a lofty string ensemble. It's such a great way of illustrating a benevolent force announcing that they've come to the rescue, as well as the soaring hope that the kingdom under siege feels as they draw nearer and nearer to provide protection. There's even a break about 45 seconds in where everything drops out except for an airy flute and some light percussion, representing that moment of reprieve you've given to this struggling nation simply by being at their side. Just because the game is on a tiny handheld doesn't mean it can't make you feel like a Big Damn Hero.

