_Day 29 (Final Boss)_

**Morphogenetic Sorrow (Nine Hours, Nine Persons, Nine Doors)**

by Shinji Hosoe

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EjQfY47pFNs

******

So I'm stretching the definition of "final boss" here to mean "the final gameplay challenge". *999*'s primary gameplay obstacles are puzzles, and this song plays during the final one in the True route, so there you have it. Many an unassuming player (this guy included) were made to cry rivers over a damn *puzzle*, thanks not only to the context surrounding it, but also the music that matches said context so perfectly. Unlike other "final boss / challenge" themes, *Morphogenetic Sorrow* doesn't include long-running motifs, or multiple movements, or anything that would really tell you that this is final. It's a surprisingly simple song -- but one that still manages to convey everything it needs to through melody and incredibly careful timbral choices. Shinji Hosoe is a *god* at commanding electronic elements to sound exactly the way he needs them to, in a way traditional instruments can't. I regret that I'll have to rush this one and can't go into full detail, but the main thing I want to draw attention to is the lead synth beginning at 0:30. It sounds so hollow, so desolate, the way each note decays slowly and with pained distortion -- and yet there's still the slightest hint of life, holding on, trying to get the attention of anyone in the universe who might hear it. I've never heard anything else like it, and it (without spoiling anything) matches this unforgettable "final boss" perfectly.
