_Day 30 (Credits)_

**Invincible Rainbow Arrow -Grand Finale- -ENG ver. (AI: The Somnium Files)**

by A-Set and Her Fantastic Friends

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LyI_AkNpI1I

******

*AI: The Somnium Files* is the latest visual novel / adventure game from Kotaro Uchikoshi, the same dude behind *999* and the rest of the *Zero Escape* series. As with pretty much all his games, it centers around solving mysteries and murders, with elements of horror and sci-fi thrown in. That said, *AI* makes two major departures from his past tales: it's more character-driven, and although the game still delves into dark and depraved territory quite often, as a whole it's a goofier and more lighthearted affair. Uchikoshi's fans are somewhat divided on this tone shift, but I for one think it worked out perfectly, as the lighter moments and stronger character focus (even at the expense of a tighter plot) allow the love and passion Uchikoshi pours into his games to really shine through.

The ending theme is far and away the greatest example. It's a performance of *Invincible Rainbow Arrow*, an in-universe idol song sung by the game's lead female character, Iris. It's deliberately sung flat and a bit cringey to make it sound like something from a Youtuber with no professional vocal training (which is essentially what Iris is), and the backing, though fun, is pretty much as stereotypical "high-energy idol song" as you can get. So TL;DR: not the most enjoyable tune from a purely musical standpoint, especially when you're forced to listen to it several times because it's actually highly relevant to the plot.

So when I heard this song start up at the end of the True route, I chuckled thinking, "Well, Uchi's gotta get as much mileage out of this song as he can." Then, as Iris approached the first chorus, the game showed something that (without spoiling anything) suggested a certain other character would be joining in and — wouldn't you know it — the chorus became an adorable duet.

At that point, I already had a big stupid grin on my face, so you can only imagine how much dumb happiness washed over me when pretty much the game's entire cast started joining in one-by-one. In fact, I squealed a bit when best girl Mizuki (literally) punched in at 1:32 with some hilarious but also super in-character lyrics. Even the lyrics to the chorus, which originally sounded ominous because it contained veiled allusions to various plot things, sound as cheesy and endearingly nonsensical as they're meant to be taken at face-value, as you've got like a dozen different people singing it now. It's all so, *so* shamelessly dumb that it wraps back around to being sincere and heartwearming.

And really, hearing all of the characters get together for this ridiculous performance, despite all of their different roles in the story, made me "pull back" and see how writing, animating, and voicing this lovable cast of weirdoes — as well as constructing a world and plot for them to interact in — was definitely fun for everyone involved. All of it really was a labour of love and a hell of a good time for Uchikoshi, his staff, and even the voice cast singing this stupid song. With all of the controversies, drama, and outrage surrounding game development these days, this ending theme, perhaps more than any other, reminds me that video games are inherently a positive and empathetic human interaction: it's a bunch of people taking what they think is fun, consolidating it into a single piece of media, and hoping you'll have fun with it, too.

*That* timeless connection between game maker and game player is the real **Invincible Rainbow Arrow**.
